First stab at organizing the documentation for Equinox (#239)
jet/equinox: README.md

# Equinox [![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/jet-opensource/opensource/_apis/build/status/jet.equinox?branchName=master)](https://dev.azure.com/jet-opensource/opensource/_build/latest?definitionId=4?branchName=master) [![release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/jet/equinox.svg)](https://github.com/jet/equinox/releases) [![NuGet](https://img.shields.io/nuget/vpre/Equinox.svg?logo=nuget)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Equinox/) [![license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/jet/Equinox.svg)](LICENSE) ![code size](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/code-size/jet/equinox.svg) [![docs status](https://img.shields.io/badge/DOCUMENTATION-WIP-important.svg?style=popout)](DOCUMENTATION.md) [<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/slack-DDD--CQRS--ES%20%23equinox-yellow.svg?logo=slack">](https://j.mp/ddd-es-cqrs)

Equinox is a set of low dependency libraries that allow for event-sourced processing against stream-based stores including:
* Snapshots
* Caching

> * State management

Reviewer: what kind of reader is supposed to infer something from this (and what are they supposed to infer) ?

Author: Good question - I'm highlighting the core areas/features that the library is tackling. Effectively we should highlight what this library does.

Reviewer: what is State Management to the person on the street? do you have a wikipedia link?

Reviewer: I would be comfortable about removing this line entirely - the term is more an umbrella term for Caching and Snapshotting

> * Retrieval optimizations

Reviewer: Again, I dont know what this means so would tend to remove it?

Author: It's a highlight of what will be explained further below.

Reviewer: caching and snapshots are meaningful terms. If you mean "Store-specific data loading optimizations", that might help ?

Reviewer: This does not add much to the bullet list so best to remove?

Author: Done

> This allows *you* to compose the libraries into an architecture that fits your apps' needs. It does not and will not handle projections and subscriptions. Refer to [Propulsion](https://github.com/jet/propulsion) for those cases.

Author: good point

# Table of Contents
* [Getting Started](#getting-started)
* [Design Motivation](#design-motivation)
* [Features](#features)
* [Currently Supported Data Stores](#currently-supported-data-stores)
* [Components](#components)
  * [Core libary](#core-library)
  * [Serialization Support](#serialization-support)
  * [Data Store Libraries](#data-store-libraries)
  * [Projection Libraries](#projection-libraries)
  * [Tools](#tools)
  * [Starter Project Templates and Sample Applications](#starter-project-templates-and-sample-applications)
* [Overview](#overview)
* [Templates](#templates)
* [Samples](#samples)
* [Building](#building)
* [Releasing](#releasing)
* [FAQ](#faq)
* [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)
* [Further Reading](#further-reading)

# Getting Started

> - If you want to start with code samples, [there's a simple `Counter` example using `Equinox.MemoryStore` for you](https://github.com/jet/equinox/blob/master/samples/Tutorial/Counter.fsx#L16)

Reviewer: > code samples 

code samples and/or running stuff in F# interactive

(add a link to an-IDE independent FSI tutorial!)

> - If you are experienced with event sourcing, CosmosDB and F#, this sample is helpful - [~100 LOC end-to-end using CosmosDB](https://github.com/jet/equinox/blob/master/samples/Tutorial/Cosmos.fsx#L36) 

Reviewer: > this sample is helpful - [~100 LOC end-to-end using CosmosDB]

You might gain most from this [100 LOC end-to-end example using CosmosDB](...)

> - If you are experienced with CosmosDB and [CosmosStore](https://github.com/Dzoukr/CosmoStore), but unsure how Equinox can refer here - [Access Strategies guide](https://github.com/jet/equinox/blob/master/DOCUMENTATION.md#access-strategies)

Reviewer: CosmosStore -> CosmoStore 
(Equinox.CosmosStore is what I call Equinox.Cosmos V3)

>but unsure how Equinox can refer here

but want to understand what sort of facilities Equinox adds on top of the raw event management in CosmoStore, see the [Access Strategies guide](https://github.com/jet/equinox/blob/master/DOCUMENTATION.md#access-strategies)

> - For all new comers, keep reading!

Reviewer: not just newcomers? Maybe:

Anyone else, keep reading!

Author: I just removed it to keep it :)

# Design Motivation

> Equinox's design is informed by discussions, talks and countless hours of hard and thoughtful work invested into many previous systems, [frameworks](https://github.com/NEventStore), [samples](https://github.com/thinkbeforecoding/FsUno.Prod), [forks of samples](https://github.com/bartelink/FunDomain), the outstanding continuous work of the [EventStore](https://github.com/eventstore) founders and team and the wider [DDD-CQRS-ES](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/dddcqrs) community. It would be unfair to single out even a small number of people despite the immense credit that is due. Some aspects of the implementation are distilled from [`Jet.com` systems dating all the way back to 2013](http://gorodinski.com/blog/2013/02/17/domain-driven-design-with-fsharp-and-eventstore/).

Reviewer: in general, try to add blank lines so people reading the text raw get a better experience (@xandkar went to the trouble of formatting the file wrt this in a PR)

Author: Hmm thoughts on how to split this up?

Reviewer: All I was trying to get across here is "can we add a blank line after the heading, even though it makes no difference at all to the rendered HTML" ! (The content of that paragraph is a mess. I will see if I can chuck half of it out, but that can be a separate concern for another day)

> An event sourcing system usually has the following attributes:

Reviewer: > has

needs

It rarely _has_ any of them

1. Storing events with good performance and debugging capabilities
2. Transaction processing

>     - Optimistic concurrency

Reviewer: perhaps add (need to load conflicting events and retry if another call overlapped on the same stream)

    - Folding events
3. Decoding events using codecs and formats
4. Framework/application integration

> 5. Projections

Reviewer: Maybe Projections/Reactions ?

> Designing something that supports all of these is difficult and results in an inflexible and difficult to use framework/library; 

Reviewer: >all of these is difficult and results in an

_all_ of these as a single integrated package is very likely to result in an

thus, Equinox focuses on the core of event sourcing, items 1 and 2, so it can be as non-intrusive to your application's domain. 

> However, since the other attributes are important we've decided that they can be supported via other libraries:

Reviewer: >However, since the other attributes are important we've decided that they can be supported via other libraries

Of course, the other aspects can't just be ignored; they are handled via other libraries focused on those tasks:-

> - [FSCodec](https://github.com/jet/FsCodec) supports encoding and decoding (attribute 3)  

Reviewer: attribute -> aspect ? maybe concern, responsibility ?

Author: I like concerns. updating it

> - [Propulsion](https://github.com/jet/propulsion) supports projections (attribute 5)

Reviewer: unless you think reactions has wrong connotations, I'd suggest referencing that term too?

> - Since Equinox is a library and is not trying to integrate with frameworks, other wrappers libraries building on top of Equinox will support integrations (attribute 4)

Reviewer: > Since Equinox is a library and is not trying to integrate with frameworks, other wrappers libraries building on top of Equinox will support integrations (attribute 4)

there is no "will". This needs to be called out as a non-goal. If you feel its important for there to be an answer to how to resolve it then I'd suggest:

As Equinox is a library, integrating with frameworks is very much an external concern - there's nothing stopping you or anyone else building something that e.g. wires Equinox into ASP.NET Core in some package. However, typically, managing that overlap is something that you address as part of building your application - there is no "standard ASP.NET Core Equinox Fable application template".

> As you can see, the fact Equinox is a library is incredibly powerful as it gives you the ability to pick your preferred way of supporting your event sourcing system.

Reviewer: I think I like this sentence and its chutzpah. I'd personally tone it down a notch and say something like:

We believe the fact Equinox is a library is powerful: it gives you the ability to pick your preferred way of applying event sourcing over time; there's less coupling in your way as evolve your application over time.

_If you're looking to learn more about and/or discuss Event Sourcing and it's myriad benefits, tradeoffs and pitfalls as you apply it to your Domain, look no further than the thriving 2000+ member community on the [DDD-CQRS-ES Slack](https://github.com/ddd-cqrs-es/slack-community); you'll get patient and impartial world class advice 24x7 (psst there are [#equinox](https://ddd-cqrs-es.slack.com/messages/CF5J67H6Z) and [#sql-stream-store](https://app.slack.com/client/T0HCLN01Y) channels where you can ask questions or offer feedback)._ ([invite link](https://j.mp/ddd-es-cqrs))

# Features

> - Designed not to invade application code that way your domain tests can be written directly against your models.

Reviewer: Designed not to invade application code; your domain tests are written directly against your models.

> - Core ideas and features of the library are extracted from ideas and lessons learned from existing production software - currently used for all data storage within Jet's API gateway and Cart processing.

Reviewer: >- currently used for all data storage within Jet's API gateway and Cart processing.

remove as no longer a true statement!

- Test coverage for it's core features. In addition there are baseline and specific tests for each supported storage system and a comprehensive test and benchmarking story
- Pluggable event serialization. All encoding is specified in terms of the [`FsCodec.IEventCodec` contract](https://github.com/jet/FsCodec#IEventCodec). [FsCodec](https://github.com/jet/FsCodec) provides for pluggable encoding of events based on either:

>   - `NewtonsoftJson.Codec`: a [versionable convention-based approach](https://eiriktsarpalis.wordpress.com/2018/10/30/a-contract-pattern-for-schemaless-datastores/) (using `Typeshape`'s `UnionContractEncoder` under the covers), providing for serializer-agnostic schema evolution with minimal boilerplate

Reviewer: I thought master already mentioned FsCodec.SystemTextJson via a PR from fluxlife ?

Reviewer: Hm, its on L119 - maybe this should add a reference to that fact too?

Author: Not sure what you mean here. Can we discuss?

Reviewer: I was saying that I thought we had mentioned SystemTextJson and was wondering if it had got lost. It had not; it's elsewhere on the page. If you can think of a clean way to work in a reference to the fact that FsCodec has an System.Text.Json implementation, it might make sense -- but only if you think so

Author: Added a note about it.

  - `Box.Codec`: lightweight [non-serializing substitute equivalent to `NewtonsoftJson.Codec` for use in unit and integration tests](https://github.com/jet/FsCodec#boxcodec)
  - `Codec`: an explicitly coded pair of `encode` and `tryDecode` functions for when you need to customize
- Caching using the .NET `MemoryCache` to:
  - Minimize round trips (pluggable via [`ICache`](https://github.com/jet/equinox/blob/master/src/Equinox.Core/Cache.fs#L22) thanks to [@DSilence](https://github.com/jet/equinox/pull/161)
  - Minimize latency and bandwidth / Request Charges by maintaining the folded state, without making the Domain Model folded state serializable
- Mature and comprehensive logging (using [Serilog](https://github.com/serilog/serilog) internally), with optimal performance and pluggable integration with your apps hosting context (we ourselves typically feed log info to Splunk and the metrics embedded in the `Serilog.Events.LogEvent` Properties to Prometheus; see relevant tests for examples)

> - **`Equinox.EventStore` In-stream Rolling Snapshots**: 

Reviewer: updates to be merged from master

  - No additional round trips to the store needed at either the Load or Sync points in the flow
  - Support for multiple co-existing compaction schemas for a given stream (A 'compaction' event/snapshot is an Event). This is done by the [`FsCodec.IEventCodec`](https://github.com/jet/FsCodec#IEventCodec)
    - Compaction events typically do not get deleted (consistent with how EventStore works), although it is safe to do so in concept
  - While snapshotting can deliver excellent performance especially when allied with the Cache, [it's not a panacea, as noted in this excellent EventStore.org article on the topic](https://eventstore.org/docs/event-sourcing-basics/rolling-snapshots/index.html)

> - **`Equinox.Cosmos` 'Tip with Unfolds' schema**: 

Reviewer: updates to be merged from master

  - It should be noted that from a querying perspective, the `Tip` shares the same structure as `Batch` documents (a potential future extension would be to carry some events in the `Tip` as [some interim versions of the implementation once did](https://github.com/jet/equinox/pull/58), see also [#109](https://github.com/jet/equinox/pull/109).
- **`Equinox.Cosmos` `RollingState` and `Custom` 'non-event-sourced' modes**: 
    - Uses 'Tip with Unfolds' encoding to avoid having to write event documents at all. This options benefits from caching and consistency management mechanisms because the cost of writing and storing infinitely increasing events are removed. Search for `transmute` or `RollingState` in the `samples` and/or see [the `Checkpoint` Aggregate in Propulsion](https://github.com/jet/propulsion/blob/master/src/Propulsion.EventStore/Checkpoint.fs). One chief use of this mechanism is for tracking Summary Event feeds in [the `dotnet-templates` `summaryConsumer` template](https://github.com/jet/dotnet-templates/tree/master/propulsion-summary-consumer).

# Currently Supported Data Stores

> - [Azure Cosmos DB](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db) - contains code dating back to 2016, however [the storage model](DOCUMENTATION.md#Cosmos-Storage-Model) was arrived at based on intensive benchmarking (squash-merged in [#42](https://github.com/jet/equinox/pull/42)).

Reviewer: > contains code dating back to 2016

 contains minor fragments of code dating back to 2016

# Equinox [![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/jet-opensource/opensource/_apis/build/status/jet.equinox?branchName=master)](https://dev.azure.com/jet-opensource/opensource/_build/latest?definitionId=4?branchName=master) [![release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/jet/equinox.svg)](https://github.com/jet/equinox/releases) [![NuGet](https://img.shields.io/nuget/vpre/Equinox.svg?logo=nuget)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Equinox/) [![license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/jet/Equinox.svg)](LICENSE) ![code size](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/code-size/jet/equinox.svg) [![docs status](https://img.shields.io/badge/DOCUMENTATION-WIP-important.svg?style=popout)](DOCUMENTATION.md) [<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/slack-DDD--CQRS--ES%20%23equinox-yellow.svg?logo=slack">](https://j.mp/ddd-es-cqrs)

A unified programming model for event-sourced processing against stream-based stores including snapshots, caching and other state management/retrieval optimizations. The library does not and will not handle projections, subscriptions etc. (see [Propulsion](https://github.com/jet/propulsion) for that).

> Equinox is focused on remaining a set of low dependency _libraries_ that _you_ compose into an architecture that fits your apps needs. This means that Equinox can also help with general accesss strategies for your storage options. The library is neither a source for Best Practice Architecture/object model/processing pipeline nor is it imposing a one-size-fits-all model on you. You decide what facilities make sense for your context and Equinox covers the infrastructural aspects. If you are new to event-sorucing we do have sample patterns that are located in [`samples`](/samples) or [templates](https://github.com/jet/dotnet-templates). This core repo will never feature tight integration with any specific web or services framework.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Equinox is focused on remaining a set of low dependency _libraries_ that _you_ compose into an architecture that fits your apps needs. The library is neither a source for Best Practice Architecture/object model/processing pipeline nor is it imposing a one-size-fits-all model on you. You decide what facilities make sense for your context and Equinox covers the infrastructural aspects. If you are new to event-sourcing we do have sample patterns that are located in [`samples`](/samples) or [templates](https://github.com/jet/dotnet-templates). This core repo will never feature tight integration with any specific web or services framework.
```

>This means that Equinox can also help with general access strategies for your storage options.

I dont know what this means

Author: This intro paragraph really needs to explain the things that we are pushing for within the team. It's clear that equinox is used not only as an event sourcing library but also to do general transactions with the data store. That needs to be explicit if we're going to continue that

# Table of Contents
* [Quickstart](#quickstart)
* [Design Motivation](#design-motivation)
* [Features](#features)
* [Currently Supported Data Stores](#currently-supported-data-stores)
* [Components](#components)
  * [Core libary](#core-library)
  * [Serialization Support](#serialization-support)
  * [Data Store Libraries](#data-store-libraries)
  * [Projection Libraries](#projection-libraries)
  * [Benchmarking Tool](#benchmarking-tool)
  * [Starter Project Templates and Sample Applications](#starter-project-templates-and-sample-applications)
* [Overview](#overview)
* [Templates](#templates)
* [Samples](#samples)
* [Building](#building)
* [Releasing](#releasing)
* [FAQ](#faq)
* [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)
* [Further Reading](#further-reading)

> # Quickstart

Reviewer: there's quite a few links to `#quickstart` externally - maybe rename to _Getting Started_?

- [Azure Cosmos DB](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db) - contains code dating back to 2016, however [the storage model](DOCUMENTATION.md#Cosmos-Storage-Model) was arrived at based on intensive benchmarking (squash-merged in [#42](https://github.com/jet/equinox/pull/42)).
- [EventStore](https://eventstore.org/) - this codebase itself has been in production since 2017 (see commit history), with key elements dating back to approx 2016.
- `MemoryStore`: In-memory store (volatile, for unit or integration test purposes). Fulfils the full contract Equinox imposes on a store, but without I/O costs [(it's ~100 LOC wrapping a `ConcurrentDictionary`)](https://github.com/jet/equinox/blob/master/src/Equinox.MemoryStore/MemoryStore.fs), and the ability to [take serialization/deserialization cost out of the picture](https://github.com/jet/FsCodec#boxcodec).
- [SqlStreamStore](https://github.com/SQLStreamStore/SQLStreamStore): Bindings for the powerful and widely used SQL-backed Event Storage system. [See SqlStreamStore docs](https://sqlstreamstore.readthedocs.io/en/latest/#introduction). :pray: [@rajivhost](https://github.com/rajivhost)

<a name="tldr"></a>

> # TL;DR Can we cut to the chase? :fast_forward:

Reviewer: I added this in response to someone (@fluxlife ?) suggesting that the README doesnt have a quick summary 5 minute "what does it do, what does the code look like" summary suitable for folk that understand the moving parts of a basic ES system. While I'm not by any means satisfied with it, I wonder whether  some pointers right up the top to code might help (maybe it should even have some code snippets?). Not sure if it makes sense to move it to the FAQ section...

> - Equinox is designed not to invade application code that way your domain tests can be written directly against your models.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Equinox is designed not to invade application code. This means domain tests can be written directly against your models without involving concrete stores or Equinox abstractions.
```

Author: I don't think adding the second half adds much to the sentence. It's already specified that it's not changing how you interact with the model

Reviewer: ok. Would like to see the "that way your" either replaced as abvoe (or maybe just with a ; ?)

  - support, (via the [`FsCodec.IEventCodec`](https://github.com/jet/FsCodec#IEventCodec)) for the maintenance of multiple co-existing compaction schemas for a given stream (A 'compaction' event/snapshot isa Event)
  - compaction events typically do not get deleted (consistent with how EventStore works), although it is safe to do so in concept
  - NB while this works well, and can deliver excellent performance (especially when allied with the Cache), [it's not a panacea, as noted in this excellent EventStore.org article on the topic](https://eventstore.org/docs/event-sourcing-basics/rolling-snapshots/index.html)
- **`Equinox.Cosmos` 'Tip with Unfolds' schema**: (In contrast to `Equinox.EventStore`'s `AccessStrategy.RollingSnapshots`,) when using `Equinox.Cosmos`, optimized command processing is managed via the `Tip` - a document per stream with an identity enabling Syncing the read/write Position via a single point-read. The `Tip` has the following attributes:
  - It maintains the present Position of the stream - i.e. the index at which the next events will be appended for a given stream (events and the Tip share a common logical partition key)

>   - It is ephemeral (`deflate+base64` compressed) [_unfolds_](DOCUMENTATION.md#Cosmos-Storage-Model)

Reviewer: It is -> it maintains ?

Reviewer: Still favor `maintains` or `holds` as the value is maintained in sync with the overall state. (Hm, eventually getting what you are seeking to imply by "represents". I don't feel that's a useful way of thinking about it, especially when we start putting events in it.)

Also on next line, the "It is" should become something "it holds"

# Design Motivation
Equinox's design is informed by discussions, talks and countless hours of hard and thoughtful work invested into many previous systems, [frameworks](https://github.com/NEventStore), [samples](https://github.com/thinkbeforecoding/FsUno.Prod), [forks of samples](https://github.com/bartelink/FunDomain), the outstanding continuous work of the [EventStore](https://github.com/eventstore) founders and team and the wider [DDD-CQRS-ES](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/dddcqrs) community. It would be unfair to single out even a small number of people despite the immense credit that is due. Some aspects of the implementation are distilled from [`Jet.com` systems dating all the way back to 2013](http://gorodinski.com/blog/2013/02/17/domain-driven-design-with-fsharp-and-eventstore/).

An event sourcing system usually needs the following concerns:
1. Storing events with good performance and debugging capabilities
2. Transaction processing
    - Optimistic concurrency
        - Handle loading conflicting events and retry if another call overlaps on the same stream

>     - Folding events

Reviewer: >Folding events

Folding events into a State, updating as new events are added

?

3. Decoding events using codecs and formats
4. Framework and application integration
5. Projections and Reactions

Designing something that supports all of these as a single integrated solution results in an inflexible and difficult to use framework/library; 
thus, Equinox focuses on the core of event sourcing, items 1 and 2, so it can be as non-intrusive to your application's domain. 

Of course, the other concerns can't be ignored; thus, they are supported via other libraries that focus on them:

> - [FSCodec](https://github.com/jet/FsCodec) supports encoding and decoding (attribute 3)  

Reviewer: attribute -> aspect (are you calling them attributes, aspects or concerns - need to use consistent terms?)

- [Propulsion](https://github.com/jet/propulsion) supports projections and reactions (attribute 5)
- Integration with frameworks is an external concern of this library. Integration with other frameworks (Equinox wiring into ASP.Net Core) is something that you should address as you build your application.

> We believe the fact Equinox is a library is incredibly powerful: 

Reviewer: >incredibly powerful

critical 

;) under promise, over deliver

    - It gives you the ability to pick your preferred way of supporting your event sourcing system.
    - There's less coupling to worry about as your application evolves over time.

_If you're looking to learn more about and/or discuss Event Sourcing and it's myriad benefits, tradeoffs and pitfalls as you apply it to your Domain, look no further than the thriving 2000+ member community on the [DDD-CQRS-ES Slack](https://github.com/ddd-cqrs-es/slack-community); you'll get patient and impartial world class advice 24x7 (psst there are [#equinox](https://ddd-cqrs-es.slack.com/messages/CF5J67H6Z) and [#sql-stream-store](https://app.slack.com/client/T0HCLN01Y) channels where you can ask questions or offer feedback)._ ([invite link](https://j.mp/ddd-es-cqrs))

# Features

> - Designed not to invade application code; that way your domain tests can be written directly against your models.

Reviewer: remove 'that way' ?

  - Minimize round trips (pluggable via [`ICache`](https://github.com/jet/equinox/blob/master/src/Equinox.Core/Cache.fs#L22) thanks to [@DSilence](https://github.com/jet/equinox/pull/161)
  - Minimize latency and bandwidth / Request Charges by maintaining the folded state, without making the Domain Model folded state serializable
- Mature and comprehensive logging (using [Serilog](https://github.com/serilog/serilog) internally), with optimal performance and pluggable integration with your apps hosting context (we ourselves typically feed log info to Splunk and the metrics embedded in the `Serilog.Events.LogEvent` Properties to Prometheus; see relevant tests for examples)
- **`Equinox.EventStore` In-stream Rolling Snapshots**: 
  - No additional round trips to the store needed at either the Load or Sync points in the flow
  - Support for multiple co-existing compaction schemas for a given stream (A 'compaction' event/snapshot is an Event). This is done by the [`FsCodec.IEventCodec`](https://github.com/jet/FsCodec#IEventCodec)
    - Compaction events typically do not get deleted (consistent with how EventStore works), although it is safe to do so in concept

>   - While snapshotting can deliver excellent performance especially when allied with the Cache, [it's not a panacea, as noted in this excellent EventStore.org article on the topic](https://eventstore.org/docs/event-sourcing-basics/rolling-snapshots/index.html)

Reviewer: >excellent EventStore.org article 

EventStore article

- **`Equinox.CosmosStore` 'Tip with Unfolds' schema**: 

>   - In contrast to `Equinox.EventStore`'s `AccessStrategy.RollingSnapshots`, when using `Equinox.CosmosStore`, optimized command processing is managed via the `Tip` - a document per stream with an identity enabling syncing the read/write position via a single point-read. The `Tip` has the following attributes:

Reviewer: >The `Tip` has the following attributes:

The 'Tip' ...

Holds / Maintains ?

>     - It represents the position of the stream - i.e. the index at which the next events will be appended for a given stream (events and the Tip share a common logical partition key)

Reviewer: >It represents the position of the stream

it records the current write position for the stream

(or something similar - I feel 'represents' conveys an image of it being a marker into which something is slotted. That kinda makes sense, but I think it might also mislead, no?)

>     - It is ephemeral (`deflate+base64` compressed) [_unfolds_](DOCUMENTATION.md#Cosmos-Storage-Model)

Reviewer: >It is ephemeral

It holds the current unfolds / snapshot data (typically this is `deflate+base64` compressed) ?

>     - It can also be a holding buffer for events. Note: [presently removed](https://github.com/jet/equinox/pull/58), but [should return](DOCUMENTATION.md#Roadmap), see [#109](https://github.com/jet/equinox/pull/109)

Reviewer: see the updated text. It's not 'presently removed' anymore!

Reviewer: I reckon b and c are pretty OK as they got a bit of a rewrite (mainly because they are actually implemented)

  - Has the benefits of the in-stream Rolling Snapshots approach while reducing latency and RU provisioning requirements due to meticulously tuned Request Charge costs:-
  - Writes never need to do queries or touch event documents in any way
  - When coupled with the cache, a typical read is a point read [with `IfNoneMatch` on an etag], costing 1.0 RU if in-date [to get the `302 Not Found` response] (when the stream is empty, a `404 NotFound` response, also costing 1.0 RU)
  - No additional round trips to the store needed at either the Load or Sync points in the flow

>   - It should be noted that from a querying perspective, the `Tip` shares the same structure as `Batch` documents (a potential future extension would be to carry some events in the `Tip` as [some interim versions of the implementation once did](https://github.com/jet/equinox/pull/58), see also [#109](https://github.com/jet/equinox/pull/109).

Reviewer: this was removed in master

- If you are experienced with CosmosDB and [CosmoStore](https://github.com/Dzoukr/CosmoStore), but want to understand what sort of facilities Equinox adds on top of the raw event management in CosmoStore, see the [Access Strategies guide](https://github.com/jet/equinox/blob/master/DOCUMENTATION.md#access-strategies)

# Design Motivation
Equinox's design is informed by discussions, talks and countless hours of hard and thoughtful work invested into many previous systems, [frameworks](https://github.com/NEventStore), [samples](https://github.com/thinkbeforecoding/FsUno.Prod), [forks of samples](https://github.com/bartelink/FunDomain), the outstanding continuous work of the [EventStore](https://github.com/eventstore) founders and team and the wider [DDD-CQRS-ES](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/dddcqrs) community. It would be unfair to single out even a small number of people despite the immense credit that is due. Some aspects of the implementation are distilled from [`Jet.com` systems dating all the way back to 2013](http://gorodinski.com/blog/2013/02/17/domain-driven-design-with-fsharp-and-eventstore/).

> An event sourcing system usually needs the following concerns:

Reviewer: >needs the following concerns:

needs to address the following concerns
OR needs to cover the following aspects
OR handles the following concerns as part of the entire system

etc?

- `Propulsion.EventStore` [![Propulsion.EventStore NuGet](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/Propulsion.EventStore.svg)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Propulsion.EventStore/) Used in the [`propulsion project es`](dotnet-tool-provisioning--benchmarking-tool) tool command; see [`dotnet new proSync` to generate a sample app](#quickstart) using it. ([depends](https://www.fuget.org/packages/Propulsion.EventStore) on `Equinox.EventStore`)
- `Propulsion.Kafka` [![Propulsion.Kafka NuGet](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/Propulsion.Kafka.svg)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Propulsion.Kafka/): Provides a canonical `RenderedSpan` that can be used as a default format when projecting events via e.g. the Producer/Consumer pair in `dotnet new proProjector -k; dotnet new proConsumer`. ([depends](https://www.fuget.org/packages/Propulsion.Kafka) on `Newtonsoft.Json >= 11.0.2`, `Propulsion`, `FsKafka`)

> ### Benchmarking Tool

Reviewer: if anything that benchmarking stuff should be moved out (`dotnet new eqxBench` covers some of it and arguably should have the remainder moved over too)

I'd instead focus on the tool's features like `init` and `dump`

- `Equinox.Core` [![NuGet](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/Equinox.Core.svg)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Equinox.Core/): Interfaces and helpers used in the concrete Store implementations, together with the default [`System.Runtime.Caching.Cache`-based] `Cache` implementation . ([depends](https://www.fuget.org/packages/Equinox.Core) on `Equinox`, `System.Runtime.Caching`)
- `Equinox.MemoryStore` [![MemoryStore NuGet](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/Equinox.MemoryStore.svg)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Equinox.MemoryStore/): In-memory store for integration testing/performance base-lining/providing out-of-the-box zero dependency storage for examples. ([depends](https://www.fuget.org/packages/Equinox.MemoryStore) on `Equinox.Core`, `FsCodec`)
- `Equinox.EventStore` [![EventStore NuGet](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/Equinox.EventStore.svg)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Equinox.EventStore/): Production-strength [EventStoreDB](https://eventstore.org/) Adapter designed to meet Jet's production monitoring requirements. ([depends](https://www.fuget.org/packages/Equinox.EventStore) on `Equinox.Core`, `EventStore.Client >= 20.6`, `FSharp.Control.AsyncSeq >= 2.0.23`)

> - `Equinox.Cosmos` [![Cosmos NuGet](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/Equinox.Cosmos.svg)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Equinox.Cosmos/): Production-strength Azure CosmosDB Adapter with integrated 'unfolds' feature, facilitating optimal read performance in terms of latency and RU costs, instrumented to meet Jet's production monitoring requirements. ([depends](https://www.fuget.org/packages/Equinox.Cosmos) on `Equinox.Core`, `Microsoft.Azure.Cosmos >= 3.9`, `FsCodec.NewtonsoftJson`, `FSharp.Control.AsyncSeq >= 2.0.23`)

Reviewer: also the NOTE re nuget only having V2 atm

- `Propulsion.EventStore` [![Propulsion.EventStore NuGet](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/Propulsion.EventStore.svg)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Propulsion.EventStore/) Used in the [`propulsion project es`](dotnet-tool-provisioning--benchmarking-tool) tool command; see [`dotnet new proSync` to generate a sample app](#quickstart) using it. ([depends](https://www.fuget.org/packages/Propulsion.EventStore) on `Equinox.EventStore`)
- `Propulsion.Kafka` [![Propulsion.Kafka NuGet](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/Propulsion.Kafka.svg)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Propulsion.Kafka/): Provides a canonical `RenderedSpan` that can be used as a default format when projecting events via e.g. the Producer/Consumer pair in `dotnet new proProjector -k; dotnet new proConsumer`. ([depends](https://www.fuget.org/packages/Propulsion.Kafka) on `Newtonsoft.Json >= 11.0.2`, `Propulsion`, `FsKafka`)

### Tools

> - `Equinox.Tool` [![Tool NuGet](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/Equinox.Tool.svg)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Equinox.Tool/): Tool incorporating a benchmark scenario runner, running load tests composed of transactions in `samples/Store` and `samples/TodoBackend` against any supported store; this allows perf tuning and measurement in terms of both latency and transaction charge aspects. (Install via: `dotnet tool install Equinox.Tool -g`)

Reviewer: Hm this needs to mention that it can initialize stores for SqlStreamStore and CosmosDB. (that's probably mentioned somewhere else in the doc) (as mentioned, the benchmark functionality will eventually be moved out - it's only got into the tool on the basis that it was the best place at the time)

> - ``

Reviewer: remove trailing stuff

- `Propulsion.EventStore` [![Propulsion.EventStore NuGet](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/Propulsion.EventStore.svg)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Propulsion.EventStore/) Used in the [`propulsion project es`](dotnet-tool-provisioning--benchmarking-tool) tool command; see [`dotnet new proSync` to generate a sample app](#quickstart) using it. ([depends](https://www.fuget.org/packages/Propulsion.EventStore) on `Equinox.EventStore`)
- `Propulsion.Kafka` [![Propulsion.Kafka NuGet](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/Propulsion.Kafka.svg)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Propulsion.Kafka/): Provides a canonical `RenderedSpan` that can be used as a default format when projecting events via e.g. the Producer/Consumer pair in `dotnet new proProjector -k; dotnet new proConsumer`. ([depends](https://www.fuget.org/packages/Propulsion.Kafka) on `Newtonsoft.Json >= 11.0.2`, `Propulsion`, `FsKafka`)

### `dotnet tool` provisioning / benchmarking tool

- `Equinox.Tool` [![Tool NuGet](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/Equinox.Tool.svg)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Equinox.Tool/)

>     - Tool incorporating a benchmark scenario runner, running load tests composed of transactions in `samples/Store` and `samples/TodoBackend` against any supported store; this allows perf tuning and measurement in terms of both latency and transaction charge aspects. (Install via: `dotnet tool install Equinox.Tool -g`)

Reviewer: Tool incorporating a -> Incorporates a

>     - It can initialize stores for `SqlStreamStore` and `CosmosDB` by using the commands `eqx init` (SqlStreamStore requires an extra step of `eqx config` to setup the database schema). See [here](https://github.com/jet/equinox#store-data-in-azure-cosmosdb).

Reviewer: `CosmosDB` -> `Equinox.CosmosStore` 
SqlStreamStore is not 'an extra step' - `init` and `config` are logically equivalent steps that ensure a schema/indexing is configured on a given store instance (`init` can be run many times to adjust RU allocations too) - the point is there are 2 commands because it landed that way from the point of view of how to represent it in Argu vs it being 'an extra step' as such

> ### `dotnet new` starter project templates and sample applications	### Starter Project Templates and Sample Applications 

Reviewer: mangled?

4. browse writes at http://localhost:30778/web/index.html#/streams

> ### Store data in [Azure CosmosDb](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/introduction)

Reviewer: all occurrences of 'CosmosDb' term in this doc have been changed to 'CosmosDB' - would be nice ot avoid eggregious diffs

    dotnet run -- -t topic0 -g consumer1
    ```

> 9. Generate an Archive container; Generate a ChangeFeedProcessor App to mirror desired streams from the Primary to it

Reviewer: cant lose it!

- following on from the previous point: you just write the unit tests without any Equinox-specific hoops to jump through; this really works very well indeed, assuming you're writing the domain code and the tests in F#. If you're working in a more verbose language, you may end up building some test helpers. We don't envisage Equinox mandating a specific pattern on the unit testing side (consistent naming such as `Events.Event`+`evolve`+`fold`+`Command`+`interpret`/`decide` can help though).
- it helps with integration testing decision processes by
  - staying out of your way as much as possible
  - providing an in-memory store that implements the same interface as the EventStore and CosmosDb stores do
- There is a projection story, but it's not the last word - any 3 proper architects can come up with at least 3 wrong and 3 right ways of running those perfectly
  - For EventStore, you use its' projections; they're great. There's a `Propulsion.EventStore` which serves the needs of `dotnet new proSync`, [but it's not intended for application level projections as yet](https://github.com/jet/propulsion/issues/8).

>   - for CosmosDb, you use the `Propulsion.Cosmos.*` libraries to work off the CosmosDb ChangeFeed using the Microsoft ChangeFeedProcessor library (and, optionally, project to/consume from Kafka) using the sample app templates (`dotnet new proProjector`).

Reviewer: changes lost

   a) load and decode unfolds from tip (followed by events, if and only if necessary)
   b) offer the events to an `isOrigin` function to allow us to stop when we've got a start point (a Reset Event, a relevant snapshot, or, failing that, the start of the stream)

> It may be helpful to look at [how an `AccessStrategy` is mapped to `isOrigin`, `toSnapshot` and `transmute` lambdas internally](https://github.com/jet/equinox/blob/74129903e85e01ce584b4449f629bf3e525515ea/src/Equinox.Cosmos/Cosmos.fs#L1029)

Reviewer: think the line number/link on master is correct now

- streams like `Favorites` where every event is small (add sku, drop sku), and the snapshot is pretty compact (list of skus) (but note it is ever growing)
- streams like `SavedForLater` items where the state rolls over regularly - even after 5 years and 1000s of items moving in and out, there's a constraint of max 50 items which makes a snapshot pretty light. (The other trick is that a `Cleared` event counts as a valid starting state for the fold - and we don't write a snapshot if we have one of those)

> The big win is latency in querying contexts - given that access strategy, you're guaranteed to be able to produce the full state of the aggregate with a single roundtrip (if max batch size is 200, the sna[shots are written every 200 items so reading backward 200 guarantees a snapshot will be included)

Reviewer: typo reintroduced

<a name="changing-access-strategy"></a>
### Changing Access / Representation strategies in `Equinox.CosmosStore` - what happens?

> > Does Equinox adapt the stream if we start writing with `Equinox.Cosmos.AccessStrategy.RollingState` and change to `Snapshotted` for instance? It could take the last RollingState writing and make the first snapshot ?

Reviewer: Cosmos -> CosmosStore

   a) load and decode unfolds from tip (followed by events, if and only if necessary)
   b) offer the events to an `isOrigin` function to allow us to stop when we've got a start point (a Reset Event, a relevant snapshot, or, failing that, the start of the stream)

> It may be helpful to look at [how an `AccessStrategy` is mapped to `isOrigin`, `toSnapshot` and `transmute` lambdas internally](https://github.com/jet/equinox/blob/74129903e85e01ce584b4449f629bf3e525515ea/src/Equinox.CosmosStore/CosmosStore.fs#L1016)

Reviewer: hm should be L1295, not sure if I had it right at any point?

   a) load and decode unfolds from tip (followed by events, if and only if necessary)
   b) offer the events to an `isOrigin` function to allow us to stop when we've got a start point (a Reset Event, a relevant snapshot, or, failing that, the start of the stream)

> It may be helpful to look at [how an `AccessStrategy` is mapped to `isOrigin`, `toSnapshot` and `transmute` lambdas internally](https://github.com/jet/equinox/blob/74129903e85e01ce584b4449f629bf3e525515ea/src/Equinox.CosmosStore/CosmosStore.fs#L1295)

Reviewer: 404; 74129903e85e01ce584b4449f629bf3e525515ea  -> master
